This is ambix 0.0.1

libambix is a library of C routines for reading and writing
files following the "ambix" (AMBIsonics eXchange) conventions.


Directory layout
----------------
libambix/
	all components of the libambix library
libambix/src
	the source code for library itself.
libambix/ambix
	public header files for the library
libambix/tests
	programs which link against libambix and test its functionality.
utils/
	utility programs using libambix


NOTES
-----
libambix is a reads and writes soundfiles following the "ambix" specificiation.
such files are:
- CAF (Core Audio Format) files 
- with a special UUID-chunk

Audio data as output by libambix will follow the following specification:
- sample format is either PCM16, PCM24 or float32 (the latter being best tested)
- audio data is interleaved
- ambisonics channels are
	- normalization		: SN3D
	- channel ordering	: ACN

It is planned to provide conversion matrices to present the audio data in other
(common) formats namely
- Furse-Malham set
- other normalizations (N3D)
- other ordering (SID)



DEPENDENCIES
------------
Currently libambix uses libsndfile to read the actual file.
Due to some advanced functionality, you need at least libsndfile-1.0.26.
At the time of writing, libsndfile-1.0.26 has not yet been released. so 
you need the current development version of libsndfile
	https://github.com/erikd/libsndfile


LINUX
-----
Whereever possible, you should use the packages supplied by your Linux
distribution.

If you really do need to compile from source it should be as easy as:

	$ ./configure
	$ make
	$ make install

if you want to compile the development version of libambix, you might need
to run
	$ ./autogen.sh
_before_ any of the above.

UNIX
----
Compile as for Linux.


Win32/Win64
-----------
The default Windows compilers (Microsoft's Visual Studio) are nowhere near
compliant with the 1999 ISO C Standard and hence not able to compile libambix.

Please use the libambix binaries available on the ambix web site.


MacOSX
------
Building on MacOSX should be the same as building it on any other Unix.


CONTACTS
--------

libambix was written by IOhannes m zmölnig at the Institute of Electronic Music
and Acoustics (IEM), andthe University of Music and Performing Arts (KUG), Graz,
Austria
The libambix home page is at :

	http://ambisonics.iem.at/xchange/format

